In this project, I worked on analyzing traffic stop data using Python, SQL, and Streamlit to build a comprehensive dashboard. I started by downloading the dataset in Excel format and reading it in VS code using the pandas library. During the initial data preprocessing, I identified missing values in the search_type column and handled them by filling nulls using the mode of similar entries grouped by country_name and driver_race.After ensuring that the dataset became complete and clean. Now preprocessing is done ,Then I created a MySQL database and table using mysql.connector and inserted all the rows from the cleaned dataset into the traffic table. Next, I built a Streamlit application for interactive visualization and analytics. I imported essential libraries including pandas, pymysql and Streamlit . I wrote helper functions create_connection and fetch_data to connect to the MySQL database, execute queries, and fetch results as pandas DataFrames. I then created the dashboard with four divisions including Introduction, Display Table , Quick metrics, SQL Analytics, Traffic Log Prediction and providing Insights. In the Display Table, the table has been displayed. In Quick metrics, it gives the quick value of total_stops, arrest, warning, drugs_related_stop. The SQL Analytics page allows users to select predefined queries categorized by Vehicle-Based, Demographic-Based, Time & Duration-Based, Violation-Based, Location-Based, and Complex Queries, showing insights like top vehicle numbers involved in drug-related stops, arrest rates by driver age, search rates by race and gender, and more.The Traffic Log page allows users to input new traffic stop details through a form and predicts the likely stop outcome and violation based on historical data, using modes of matching filtered records.
